PRO REGE DEIOTARO

ORATIO.

INTRODUCTION.

STRABO (p. 187) informs us that the Galli who settled in Asia were
eomposed of some of the tribes from the south of Gallia mingled with
other Galli. In the south-west of Gallia there was a powerful tribe
named Galli Tectosages 3 and the Galatae, or Gallo-Graeci, as they were
sometimes called, about Ancyra in Asia, were named Tectosages. There
were two other Gallie tribes in Galatia, named respectively Trocmi and
Tolistobogii‚ but the geographer cannot say from what parts of Gallia
they came, and he knew of no Gallie tribes with these names in his own
time within the limits of Gallia or in the Alpine regions.

The Galli, at a very early period, were in North Italy, and they also
extended their emigrations into the valley of the Danube and to the
eastern side of the Hadriatic. About 13.0. 279, under Brennus, these
terrible marauders found their way into the centre of Greeee, and
attempted to plunder Delphi. The pillage of sacred places has eon—
tinued to be a Gallie fashion to the present day. Some of Brennus'
comrades, separating from him, made their way towards Byzantium, and
got possession of the Thracian Chersonese. A commander of one body,
named Lutarius, seized some boats and took his men over the Hellespont3
and the first Nicomedes, king of Bithynia, carried over the Bosporus
from Byzantium another body of Galli, under Leonorius, to help him
against his brother Ziboetes. Thus the Galli got a footing in Asia, and
never left it. They inflieted on the people the most horr-ible sufferings
in their marauding expeditioris, but finally they settled between the
Halys and the Sangarius, in a tract which received from them the name
of Galatia. These Galli fought on the side of Antiochus the Great in
the battle of Magnesia ad Sipylum (11.0. 190, Livy 37, 0. 40), where
the Syrian king was defeated by L. Scipio. In 13.e. 189 the consul Cn. η

